AUTOPSY PROTOCOL: RC-856-66
 
Name: BATES, Cheri Jo/18-female-Caucasian-American
Time of Death: Found 31 October 1966
Place of Death: Found 3680 Terracina Street, Riverside, California
Time of Autopsy: 31 October 1966
Place of Autopsy: Acheson and Graham Mortuary, Arlington, California
Autopsy Surgeon: F. Rene Modglin, M. D.
Source: Riverside County Coroner, Deputy Reilly, No. 21183
Witnesses: Detective Gerald H. Dunn and Detective Earl T. Brown (Riverside Police Department); Investigator Jim Lasselgas, (Riverside County District Attorney’s Office); Michael J. Reilly (Riverside County Coroner’s Office); and Mr. Scotty Hill embalmer of Acheson and Graham Mortuary.
 
HISTORY OF DEATH:
According to Deputy Coroner Michael Reilly the subject was found dead in the driveway area of the back yard of an old residence being used as part of the college library.
 
EXTERNAL EXAMINATION:
The 5’ 2” (1 measured) about 110 pound unembalmed body is that of a teenage female with green eyes and brown scalp hair.
 
1.
2. a 2 cm oblique ragged edge fresh non gapping laceration of the upper lip on the left side that angles laterally from above and extends completely through the thickness of the lip.  The teeth behind are not loose or broken. (see figure 1)
3. a dark blue-gray slightly swollen discoloration of mainly the mucocutaneous portions of the upper and lower lips of the right side involving a 2 cm greatest diameter.  (see figure 1)
4. numerous petechiae in the skin of the forehead.
5. an “in line” series of three fresh lacerations of the skin of the left cheek angling from above in front slightly downward and posteriorly.  The anterior is 2 cm long, the intermediate 0.5 cm long and the posterior one 2 cm long.  The overall length is about 3 cm and all extend into the superficial subcutaneous tissue but do not gape. (see figure 2)
6. an area of dark blue-gray discoloration of the skin of the left cheek and chin involving mainly the anterior two of the lacerations just mentioned.  It is also “criss-crossed” by a few fine linear abrasions. (see figure 1)
7. the midline chin skin dark blue-gray over a 3 cm greatest diameter and “criss-crossed” by several fine line like abrasions. (see figure 1)
8. the anterior neck skin extensively and irregularly lacerated with marked gapping (see figure 3)  A deep cut is in the thyroid cartilage on both sides and the right common carotid is completely transected as well as the right superficial jugular vein.
9. a gapping about 1.5 cm oblique fresh laceration in the skin of the right anterior axillary fold centered 5 cm from the apex produced by the anterior axillary fold and the right arm. (see figure 7)   It is probed into the subcutaneous tissue about 1 cm.
10. a 1.4 cm fresh vertical gapping sharp edge laceration in the upper medial quadrant of the left breast in the second ICS. (see figure 4)
 
[page 2]
 
BATES, Cheri Jo RC-836-66
 
EXTERNAL EXAMINATION, CONTINUED:
 
11. a 1.9 cm gapping sharp edge fresh laceration of the lower medial quadrant of the right breast in the 3rd lower space. (see figure 4)
12. a 1.7 cm mainly transverse fresh laceration of the skin of the left chest over the 5th rib and centered about 2 cm medial to the left vertical nipple line. (see figure 4)
13. a 4 cm gaping fresh sharp edge mainly horizontal laceration of the right upper arm anterior and medially that extends through the fat and into the muscle. (see figure 4)
14. a 1.3 cm greatest diameter fresh abrasion with dark blue discoloration of the skin at the base of the dorsum of the right thumb. (see figure 6)
15. a few light linear “criss-crossing” abrasions of the skin of the dorsum of the right hand involving mainly the medial half over the metacarpals. (see figure 6)
16. two abrasions, each about 1 cm in greatest diameter, in the skin at the base of the dorsum of the right middle finger. (see figure 6)
17. a 2-3 mm fresh abrasion of the skin of the dorsum of the middle of the right 4th finger. (see figue 4)
18. considerable partially dried blood over the hand and especially about the fingers and under the unpainted moderately long (2 &ndash; 3 mm) but not carefully manicured fingernails.
19. two fresh 3-5 mm greatest diameter abrasions in the skin over the 2nd IP joint of the lateral aspect of the right index finger.  (see figure 11)
20. an irregular 1.3 cm greatest diameter recent abrasion of the skin over the 2nd IP joint of the medial aspect of the right little finger. (see figure 11)
21. a more or less AP interrupted fine abrasion type laceration in the skin of the base of the medial aspect of the right little finger. (see finger X) 10 F m 23
22. a curved and interrupted moderately deep laceration (2 cm overall) in the skin of the base of the lateral aspect of the right index finger. (see figure 11)
23. two somewhat abraded fresh lacerations of the skin of the volar surface of the left forearm more or less in the mid portion.  They run from lateral to medial the longer is 4 cm and the shorter is 3.5 cm and more lateral than the former.  These extend into the subcutaneous tissue. (see figure 9)
24. a more or less Y shape laceration in the skin of the dorsum of the left hand medially and at the junction of the wrist and hand. (see figure 8)
25. an irregular laceration of the skin of the dorsum of the left hand in line with the middle finger and is about the mid area. (see figure 9)
26. a 1.3 cm laceration in the skin of the back of the left side that is fresh, has sharp edges and gaps.  It is horizontally orientated and its medial end is about 2 cm lateral to the midline and opposite the spinous process of T7. (see figure 12)
 
INTERNAL EXAMINATION:
 
Skull and Central Nervous System:
Numerous patechiae are diffusely scattered in the galea of the scalp.  The cortical vessels of this about 1350 gm brain are moderately congested.  There is no skull fracture, brain tumor, congenital anomaly, significant edema, inflammation, intracranial hemorrhage either recent or old, infarct either recent or old or obvious degenerative lesion.
 
BIO-LABORATORIES
Colton, California
 
BATES, Cheri Jo RC-856-66
 
CHRONOLOGY:
 
31 October 1966:
 
0715: Called at home by Chief Deputy Coroner William J. Dykes about the possibility of a homicide.
 
0830: Called at office by Chief Deputy Coroner William J. Dykes to proceed to 3680 Terracina Street, Riverside, California
 
0903: Arrived at scene.  Body in capris, white sandals without socks or hose and loose pink moderately heavy blouse.  Laying mainly face down.
 
0924: Body examined at site; skin surface cool, rigor present in all extremities but more so in lower than superior members.
 
0931: Liver temperature 26° and 28° C.
 
1050: I helped remove clothes.
 
1100: Autopsy started and several hairs removed from the base of the right thumb and placed in a 4 x 1 &frac12; inch clear plastic container held by Detective Earl T. Brown.  I removed blood from the heart.  Subsequently placed in the lab refrigerator.
 
1342: Autopsy completed
 
1 November 1966: Vaginal swab washing sediment smears made: no spermatozoa identified.
 
2 November 1966: Blood typed AB; Rh. (D) positive.
 
3 November 1966: Tests for barbiturates, narcotics and ethanol &ndash; negative.
 
9 November 1966: Preliminary report filed with Riverside County District Attorney’s office.
 
Nail scrapings, hairs from base of the right thumb and “vaginal” smears given to L. L. Mitchell at 0830.
 
BATES, Cheri Jo
 
INTERNAL EXAMINATION, CONTINUED:
 
Neck Organs:
The thyroid cartilage is obliquely cut on each side.  Each cut is about 3 cm leng and angle from lateral above to medially below forming a somewhat Y shape structure with the apex at about the mid portion of the thyroid cartilage anteriorly.  The upper edges are cut much deeper than the inferior portions.  The medial edges of the upper portions of the right and left lobes of the thyroid are partially incised.  The right and left superficial jugular veins are completely transected.  The right common carotid artery is completely transected about 2 cm above its origin.
 
Cardiovascular System:
The about 400 gm lung is free in its pleural sac and has no lesion of its surface or interior.  The about 400 gm left lung is also free in its pleural space.  Two moderately superficial lacerations are in the anterior and medial surface of its upper lobe.  There is no significant foreign body obstruction of the tracheobronchial tree, pulmonary embolu significant atolactasis, emphysema, pneumonia, significant hemorrhage into either pleural space.  There are no fractures of the hyoid bone or thyroid or tracheal cartilage: other that the cuts mentioned for the thyroid cartilage.  There is no significant edema or hemorrhage into the lining of the larynx or about the other soft tissues about the larynx.
 
Gastrointestinal System:
There are no lesions of the peritoneum, omantum or mesentory.  There are no lesions of the esophagus.  The stomach contains at least 100 ml of thick fluid with particulate food particles in which are easily recognized reasonably large pieces of apparently beef along with vegetable particles being either and/or celery and onion and white curd like particles floating in the gastric contents that appear to be either milk or cottage cheese.  There is no lesion of the stomach, duodenum, remaining small bowel or large bowel including the rectum.  The 120 gm pancreas is in its usual position and has no lesion of its surface or interior.
 
Hepatic System:
The about 1250 gm liver is in its usual position and has no lesion of its surface or interior.  A gallbladder is present with no lesion of the wall or lumen including calculi and there are no lesions of the remaining extrahopatic biliary duct system.
 
Lymphocytic System:
The about 1250 gm liver is in its usual position and has no lesion of its surface or interior.  There are no significant lymph node changes in the thorax or abdomen.
 
Urinary System:
Each about 160 gm kidney has a capsule that stripe easily leaving a smooth cortical surface with no lesion.  The interiors have the usual cortical and medullary markings with no lesions and there are no lesions of the calycoal systems, renal pelvis, uretere or urina: bladder.
 
BATES, Cheri Jo RC-856-66
 
INTERNAL EXAMINATION, CONTINUED:
 
Reproductive System:
The external genitalia are those of an adult female.  The vaginal orifice has no hymen but the usual ring of caruaculae myrtiformae are present.  There is no significant amount of fluid in the vaginal canal, however, dry cotton swabs are taken.  The uterus, ovariea and oviducts are present and there is no evidence of pregnancy.
 
Endocrine Systems:
Lacerations of the about 20 gm thyroid have been previously mentioned.  There are no other lesions of its surface or interior.  Each adrenal is in its usual position, has no lesion of its surface or interior and they total about 11 gm.
 
Skeletal and Muscular Systems:
There is a 1.5 cm oblique cut in the bony portion of the 5th rib anteriorly on the left corresponding somewhat to the skin laceration over it.  There are no other bony lesions and fractures are looked for.  The lacerations of skeletal and muscle have been mentioned under specific areas.
 
BATES, Cheri Jo RC-856-66
 
ANATOMIC DIAGNOSES:
 
LACERATIONS OF:
 
FACE
NECK
HANDS
ARM
FOREARM
LUNG
COMMON CAROTID ARTERY
THYROID
THYROID CARTILAGE
RIB
 
ABRASIONS OF:
FACE
HANDS
FOREARMS
 
PETECHIAE OF FOREHEAD
 
DEATH CERTIFICATE DIAGNOSIS:
Hemorrhage, due to
Laceration of right carotid artery
 
BATES, Cheri Jo RC-856-66
 
COMMENTS:
 
Death is due to
Ensangulcation due to
Severed right common carotid artery due to
Laceration of neck due to
Probable knife
 
As the result of the rapid blood loss the subject would go late shock rapidly and undoubtedly would become unconscious and die in several minutes.  The time interval of minutes might make me wonder why she wouldn’t scream and run for help, however, it is very likely that the suddenness and fear caused by the attack caused her to be faint, hence, allowing no time for many long and loud calls for help.  The syncope would then blend late the unconsciousness from blood loss and on into death.
 
The state of rigor mortis, post mortem lividity and body temperature at 0923, 31 October 1966 indicated she had been dead between 9 and 12 hours.
 
The lacerations are typical of knife cuts and the minimum instrument dimensions for a knife blade would be &frac12; inch wide and 3 &frac12; inches long.  There were no “tell tale” marks to indicate it had been plunged in “up to the hilt”.  The position(s) of the assailant is/are not “proof positive” from the study of the body.
 
The gastric contents suggest she had eaten a supper type meal probably not more than 2-4 hours before death.
 
Vaginal contents are negative for spermatozoa, spermine and choliae.
 
At least 7 lacerations involve the neck.
 
The right common carotid artery is transected only once.
 
The sequence of the lacerations of the neck cannot be absolutely established nor is there any reasonable suggestion of their order of occurrence from the examination of the body.
 
Pathologist,
 
F. Rene Modglin, M. D.
 
FRM: mg
22 December 1966
